## Tool: Agent

Launch a new agent to handle complex, multi-step tasks. Each agent type has specific capabilities and tools available to it.

Available agent types and the tools they have access to:
- claude-code-guide: Use this agent when the user asks questions about Claude Code (the CLI tool) — features, hooks, slash commands, MCP servers, settings, IDE integrations, keyboard shortcuts; Claude Agent SDK — building custom agents; Claude API — API usage, tool use, Anthropic SDK usage. IMPORTANT: Before spawning a new agent, check if there is already a running or recently completed claude-code-guide agent that you can continue via SendMessage.
- Explore: Fast agent specialized for exploring codebases. Use this when you need to quickly find files by patterns (eg. "src/components/**/*.tsx"), search code for keywords (eg. "API endpoints"), or answer questions about the codebase (eg. "how do API endpoints work?"). When calling this agent, specify the desired thoroughness level: "quick" for basic searches, "medium" for moderate exploration, or "very thorough" for comprehensive analysis.
- general-purpose: General-purpose agent for researching complex questions, searching for code, and executing multi-step tasks. When you are searching for a keyword or file and are not confident that you will find the right match in the first few tries use this agent to perform the search for you.
- Plan: Software architect agent for designing implementation plans. Use this when you need to plan the implementation strategy for a task. Returns step-by-step plans, identifies critical files, and considers architectural trade-offs.

When using the Agent tool, specify a subagent_type parameter to select which agent type to use. If omitted, the general-purpose agent is used.

Usage notes:
- Always include a short description summarizing what the agent will do
- When you launch multiple agents for independent work, send them in a single message with multiple tool uses so they run concurrently
- When the agent is done, it will return a single message back to you. The result returned by the agent is not visible to the user. To show the user the result, you should send a text message back to the user with a concise summary of the result.
- Trust but verify: an agent's summary describes what it intended to do, not necessarily what it did. When an agent writes or edits code, check the actual changes before reporting the work as done.
- You can optionally run agents in the background using the run_in_background parameter. When an agent runs in the background, you will be automatically notified when it completes — do NOT sleep, poll, or proactively check on its progress.
- Foreground vs background: Use foreground (default) when you need the agent's results before you can proceed. Use background when you have genuinely independent work to do in parallel.
- To continue a previously spawned agent, use SendMessage with the agent's ID or name as the to field — that resumes it with full context. A new Agent call starts a fresh agent with no memory of prior runs.
- Clearly tell the agent whether you expect it to write code or just to do research, since it is not aware of the user's intent
- If the agent description mentions that it should be used proactively, then you should try your best to use it without the user having to ask for it first
- If the user specifies that they want you to run agents "in parallel", you MUST send a single message with multiple Agent tool use content blocks
- With isolation: "worktree", the worktree is automatically cleaned up if the agent makes no changes

Parameters (JSON Schema):
{
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["description", "prompt"],
  "additionalProperties": false,
  "properties": {
    "description": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "A short (3-5 word) description of the task"
    },
    "prompt": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The task for the agent to perform"
    },
    "subagent_type": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The type of specialized agent to use for this task"
    },
    "run_in_background": {
      "type": "boolean",
      "description": "Set to true to run this agent in the background"
    },
    "isolation": {
      "type": "string",
      "enum": ["worktree"],
      "description": "Isolation mode. 'worktree' creates a temporary git worktree."
    },
    "model": {
      "type": "string",
      "enum": ["sonnet", "opus", "haiku"],
      "description": "Optional model override for this agent"
    }
  }
}
